# Vatic #

Vatic is a Python package for applying Pyomo and Egret to simulating the
optimized behaviour of power grids under a given set of scenarios. It is
meant as a lightweight replacement for Prescient, which is available
[here](https://github.com/grid-parity-exchange/Prescient).


## Installing Vatic ##

After making sure you have Python 3.8 installed, clone the repository using
one of the following commands:

```git clone https://github.com/PrincetonUniversity/Vatic.git```

```git clone git@github.com:PrincetonUniversity/Vatic.git```

Then, from inside the cloned directory, install Vatic:
```
cd Vatic
pip install .
```


## Running Vatic ##

Installing vatic adds the command `vatic-det` to your command line
namespace, which is called the following way:

```vatic-det $input_dir $output_dir $start_date $end_date ```

`input_dir` is the directory storing the dataset to be used for the run.
This directory should be structured in the same way as *e.g.* directories
downloaded using the Prescient downloaders. Thus you can use directories
generated by these downloaders, such as ```Prescient/downloads/texas-7k```,
as `input_dir`.

`output_dir` is where the output will be stored, which will consist of a copy
of `input_dir` along with any generated scenarios.

`start_date` and `end_date` are the starting and ending dates of the simulation,
given in YYYY-MM-DD format, *e.g.* 2018-07-10 and 2018-07-11.

In addition to these required arguments, `vatic-det` accepts the following
optional arguments:

`--solver` The solver to use for RUC and SCED instances, such as `cbc` or
`gurobi`. The default is `cbc`; note that you may have to install your
preferred solver separately.

`--scen-dir` If you have already generated scenarios using a previous run of
Vatic or Prescient, you can specify the directory here to allow Vatic to skip
the scenario generation process and use these cached scenarios instead. Note
that if this option is not specified, you can find the scenarios generated
using the present run under `$output_dir/scenarios`.

`--threads` The number of compute cores to be used for parallelization.
If you are running `vatic-det` on a remote compute cluster, do not use
more cores than what has been allocated to you for a particular job.
The default value is 1, which will not parallelize any computation. Must be
a non-negative integer; a value of 0 will instruct the solvers to use all
possible nodes, which is not recommended when running on remote clusters.

`--sced-horizon` How far ahead in hours each security-constrained economic
dispatch instance will look ahead. Must be a positive integer; the default
value is 4.

`--ruc-mipgap` The relative optimality gap used by each reliability unit
commitment instance to decide when to terminate. Expressed as a ratio
of the difference between the lower and upper objective bound and the
incumbent objective value. The default value is 0.01.

`--solver-args` A list of arguments to modify the behaviour of the solver
used for RUCs and SCEDs. These should be given in the format
```--solver-args arg1=x arg2=y arg3=z ...```. For example, if you are using
Gurobi, you might specify ```--solver-args Cuts=1 Presolve=1 Heuristics=0.03```.
